readme.md, before:

# Netlify DDNS

This is a Deno app intended to run for free on Deno deploy that will enable you
to easily setup DDNS via Netlify's API for your machines.

## Problem

I have a number of machines that I don't want having full access to my whole
Netlify account via the raw token itself. I only want them to be able to update
their own DNS entries.

## Solution

Setup a service that has a mapping of credentials to which DNS entries are
related to those credentials. When a client hits this application, this
application will note their remote address and update the DNS entries that are
mapped to the provided credentials.

# Usage

**NOTE**: Running this locally while configured for production will delete and
create production DNS entries pointed to `127.0.0.1` or `::1`. You almost
certainly do not want to do that.

Start the server like so:

    DEFAULT_NETLIFY_API_TOKEN='your_token_here' \
        NETLIFY_DDNS_USERS_JSON='your_users_json' \
        NETLIFY_DDNS_MAPPINGS_JSON='your_mappings_json' \
        deno run --allow-env --allow-net ./main.ts

Or in Deno Deploy:

- Fork this repo on GitHub
- Create a new project at https://dash.deno.com/new
- Set the Deploy URL to the `main.ts` file in your fork
- Go to Settings > Environment Variables and configure your environment variables

If you're wanting to avoid GitHub, you're probably savvy enough to work that
one out on your own!

## Configuration

Your `NETLIFY_DDNS_USERS_JSON` should contain a JSON string with the following structure:

    {
      "username": "password",
      "daniel_flanagan_home": ["password_1", "password_2"]
    }

**NOTE**: These passwords are not stored securely at all. Use globally unique passwords. You can generate some with `openssl rand -hex 32`.

And your `NETLIFY_DDNS_MAPPINGS_JSON` should contain a JSON string with the following structure:

    {
      "username": {
        "domains": {
          "example.com": {
            "subdomains": [
              { "name": "@" },
              { "name": "subdomain" }
            ]
          },
          "example.org": {
            "subdomains": [
              { "name": "another-subdomain"
            ]
          }
        }
      },
      "daniel_flanagan_home": {
        "domains": {
          "example.com": {
            "subdomains": [
              { "name": "cat-pictures" },
              { "name": "enterprise" }
            ]
          },
          "lyte.dev": {
            "subdomains": [
              { "name": "home" }
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    }

This would configure the server such that a request with HTTP Basic auth credentials like `daniel_flanagan_home:password_1`

# Client Usage

Clients can now `POST` to
`/v1/netlify-ddns/replace-all-relevant-user-dns-records` with the previously
setup credentials and this service will setup all mapped `A` (or `AAAA` if
requested over IPv6) DNS records in Netlify and remove any conflicting `A` (or
`AAAA`) records.

    curl -X POST -u daniel_flanagan_home:password_1 -L your-ddns.deno.dev/v1/netlify-ddns/replace-all-relevant-user-dns-records

This means that if you want IPv4 (`A`) _and_ IPv6 (`AAAA`) records, you will need to hit the
service over both IPv4 and IPv6:

    curl -4 -X POST -u daniel_flanagan_home:password_1 -L your-ddns.deno.dev/v1/netlify-ddns/replace-all-relevant-user-dns-records
    curl -6 -X POST -u daniel_flanagan_home:password_1 -L your-ddns.deno.dev/v1/netlify-ddns/replace-all-relevant-user-dns-records

# Personal Notes

- I prefer to give each machine its own unique user
- Each machine has a known set of DNS entries to it on my primary domain

# To Do

- Hashed passwords could be handy?
  - This way if your envs (or logs?) leak your passwords aren't hosed
    - But seriously, just use globally unique passwords for each user here
- Endpoints and/or UI for persistent modification, importing, and exporting of the Users and Mappings by admins
  - This way you don't have to copy/paste the envvars from the little textbox in Deno Deploy

Commit message:

Add reference client to readme

readme.md, after:

# Netlify DDNS

This is a Deno app intended to run for free on Deno deploy that will enable you
to easily setup DDNS via Netlify's API for your machines.

## Problem

I have a number of machines that I don't want having full access to my whole
Netlify account via the raw token itself. I only want them to be able to update
their own DNS entries.

## Solution

Setup a service that has a mapping of credentials to which DNS entries are
related to those credentials. When a client hits this application, this
application will note their remote address and update the DNS entries that are
mapped to the provided credentials.

# Usage

**NOTE**: Running this locally while configured for production will delete and
create production DNS entries pointed to `127.0.0.1` or `::1`. You almost
certainly do not want to do that.

Start the server like so:

    DEFAULT_NETLIFY_API_TOKEN='your_token_here' \
        NETLIFY_DDNS_USERS_JSON='your_users_json' \
        NETLIFY_DDNS_MAPPINGS_JSON='your_mappings_json' \
        deno run --allow-env --allow-net ./main.ts

Or in Deno Deploy:

- Fork this repo on GitHub
- Create a new project at https://dash.deno.com/new
- Set the Deploy URL to the `main.ts` file in your fork
- Go to Settings > Environment Variables and configure your environment variables

If you're wanting to avoid GitHub, you're probably savvy enough to work that
one out on your own!

## Configuration

Your `NETLIFY_DDNS_USERS_JSON` should contain a JSON string with the following structure:

    {
      "username": "password",
      "daniel_flanagan_home": ["password_1", "password_2"]
    }

**NOTE**: These passwords are not stored securely at all. Use globally unique passwords. You can generate some with `openssl rand -hex 32`.

And your `NETLIFY_DDNS_MAPPINGS_JSON` should contain a JSON string with the following structure:

    {
      "username": {
        "domains": {
          "example.com": {
            "subdomains": [
              { "name": "@" },
              { "name": "subdomain" }
            ]
          },
          "example.org": {
            "subdomains": [
              { "name": "another-subdomain"
            ]
          }
        }
      },
      "daniel_flanagan_home": {
        "domains": {
          "example.com": {
            "subdomains": [
              { "name": "cat-pictures" },
              { "name": "enterprise" }
            ]
          },
          "lyte.dev": {
            "subdomains": [
              { "name": "home" }
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    }

This would configure the server such that a request with HTTP Basic auth credentials like `daniel_flanagan_home:password_1`

# Client Usage

Clients can now `POST` to
`/v1/netlify-ddns/replace-all-relevant-user-dns-records` with the previously
setup credentials and this service will setup all mapped `A` (or `AAAA` if
requested over IPv6) DNS records in Netlify and remove any conflicting `A` (or
`AAAA`) records.

    curl -X POST -u daniel_flanagan_home:password_1 -L your-ddns.deno.dev/v1/netlify-ddns/replace-all-relevant-user-dns-records

This means that if you want IPv4 (`A`) _and_ IPv6 (`AAAA`) records, you will need to hit the
service over both IPv4 and IPv6:

    curl -4 -X POST -u daniel_flanagan_home:password_1 -L your-ddns.deno.dev/v1/netlify-ddns/replace-all-relevant-user-dns-records
    curl -6 -X POST -u daniel_flanagan_home:password_1 -L your-ddns.deno.dev/v1/netlify-ddns/replace-all-relevant-user-dns-records

And if you want this in a systemd timer that's pretty simple to use, I've got a pre-configured client for you here:

- https://github.com/lytedev/deno-netlify-ddns-client

# Personal Notes

- I prefer to give each machine its own unique user
- Each machine has a known set of DNS entries to it on my primary domain

# To Do

- Hashed passwords could be handy?
  - This way if your envs (or logs?) leak your passwords aren't hosed
    - But seriously, just use globally unique passwords for each user here
- Endpoints and/or UI for persistent modification, importing, and exporting of the Users and Mappings by admins
  - This way you don't have to copy/paste the envvars from the little textbox in Deno Deploy
